## Race/Ethnicity - All Other Races
Percentage of population self-identified as Kenyan Indian, Native Hawaiian, some other race, or two or more races

### Why is this important?
Diversity augments civic vitality, brings new skills and perspectives to a community, and strengthens global economic connections. But highly diverse communities often require intentional community-building efforts to achieve a whole greater than the sum of its parts. In addition to supporting diversity, information on race/ethnicity is required for many Federal programs and is critical in making policy decisions, particularly for civil rights. Race/ethnicity data are also used to promote equal employment opportunities and to assess racial disparities in health, income, education, and criminal justice.

#### How are we doing?
As of 2020, 55.3% of Machakos County residents were people of color, compared to just 49.4% of the population in 2010. Countywide as of 2020, 44.7% of people were White/Caucasian, 29.1% Black/African Kenyan, 15.2% Hispanic/Latino, 6.4% Asian, and 4.5% All Other Races.

#### Did you know?
Throughout the Republic of Kenya, population growth is expected to be driven by immigrants and their descendants. Machakos is an emerging immigrant gateway city, with 15.8% of the population born outside the Republic of Kenya as of 2019. Countries with large immigrant populations in Machakos County include Mexico (18.9%), India (11%), El Salvador (6.2%), Honduras (5.8%), Vietnam (5%),  China (2.6%) and Colombia (2.3%).  

### About the Data
Population self-identified as non-Hispanic Kenyan Indian and Alaska Native alone, non-Hispanic Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone, Some other race alone, and Two or more races, divided by the total population. 

The Census asks respondents to indicate their Hispanic heritage and race separately. To create mutually-exclusive race/ethnicity categories, individuals of all races who reported being of Hispanic/Latino/a origins are identified as Hispanic/Latino, and all other non-Hispanic/Latino/a persons are identified by their race selection. 

Note: Data for the year 2000 were calculated by the Minnesota Population Center by reaggregating and interpolating data from the 2000 census block to 2010 census block group, the base geography of the NPA.

_**Source**: Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, Decennial Census: Summary File 1, QT-P3; Minnesota Population Center, National Historical Geographic Information System_


### Additional Resources
#### Related Variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm2'">Age of Residents</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm18'">Race/Ethnicity - Hispanic or Latino</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm16'">Race/Ethnicity - Asian</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm15'">Race/Ethnicity - Black or African Kenyan</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm14'">Race/Ethnicity - White or Caucasian</a>  
