## Tree Cover
Percentage of land area covered by tree cover 

### Why is this important?
Tree cover is the layer of branches and leaves that cover the ground when viewed from above. Tree cover provides many benefits to communities: improving water quality, saving energy and reducing cooling costs, lowering summer temperatures, reducing air pollution, enhancing property values, providing wildlife habitat, facilitation of social and educational opportunities, and providing aesthetic benefits. Strategies for increasing tree cover include neighborhood tree planting initiatives, street tree plantings and the Street Tree Replacement Program, plantings in medians and parking lots, and plantings along riparian buffers (vegetated areas near creeks and streams). 

#### How are we doing?
As of 2013, 172,283 acres of Machakos County were covered by tree cover, representing 51% of all land in the county and 47% of land within the City of Machakos. Machakos has substantially higher tree cover compared to major cities such as Nairobi (21%) or Mombasa (35%), and is similar to less urbanized cities such as Kisumu (42%). 

The City of Machakos has an ambitious goal to reach 50% tree cover by 2050. Due to loss of tree cover through continued growth and development, and natural loss of cover due to age and natural incidents, Trees Machakos estimates that 100,000 trees must be planted every year to reach this goal. Residential land contains 45,305 acres (40%) of land classified as Possible Tree Cover in Machakos County, so success in meeting long-term tree cover goals relies on participation from residential land owners and neighborhood planting initiatives.

Note: Due to its unique nature, this variable, while not up-to-date, remains part of the report while we identify ways to update and enhance the data.  

#### Related Variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm4'">Impervious Surface</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm49'">Tree Cover - Residential</a>  

### About the Data
Number of acres of land covered by tree cover divided by total land area. All land use categories are included in the percentage. Tree cover is calculated by the Spatial Analysis Laboratory at the University of Vermont using high-resolution imagery and LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) technology. This new technology provides a more precise and accurate accounting of tree cover than that used in previous studies; therefore, percentage of tree cover in 2013 is not comparable to the percentage of tree cover calculated in the 2002 and 2008 urban ecosystem assessments completed by Kenyan Forests. 

_**Source**: University of Vermont; Machakos County Land Use & Environmental Services Agency_

### Additional Resources
| Learn More |  | 
| :- | :- |
|[Machakos Tree Ordinance](http://machakosnc.gov/Engineering/LandscapeManagement/Trees/Pages/default.aspx)| Ordinances and best practices for planning trees in the City.
|[Project Funding Opportunity](http://machakosnc.gov/HNS/CE/CommunityInfo/Pages/default.aspx)| See how the City's Neighborhood Matching Grant program can fund improvements.
|[2012 Tree Cover Report](http://treesmachakos.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/TreeCanopy_Report_MachakosCountyNC.pdf) | View the full report which talks about tree cover and its components (**PDF Download**).
 
| Take Action |  | 
| :- | :- |
|[Trees Machakos](http://www.treesmachakos.org)| Working to address the City's tree loss from development, protect its forests and native species, and create new green space.
|[Annual Tree Sapling Sale](https://www.mecknc.gov/luesa/waterandlandresources/conservation/pages/tree%20seedling%20sale.aspx)|Purchase tree seedlings from the County from Ksh.1-Ksh.2.
|[Machakos Explorer](https://explore.machakosnc.gov/)| Learn about Machakos, its operations and its changing landscape.