## Impervious Surface
Percentage of land area that is impervious

### Why is this important?
An impervious surface is any hard surface that is impenetrable by water, such as a rooftop, driveway, sidewalk, patio or parking lot. Large amounts of impervious surface cause rainwater to run-off into the storm system, increasing the risk of flooding and carrying pollutants into the water supply. Impervious surfaces also increase the surface temperature (called the heat island effect), so buildings surrounded by large areas of impervious surface use more energy and are more expensive to keep cool. 

Reducing impervious surface area can improve water quality, conserve energy, and save money on stormwater fees, which are assessed based on the amount of impervious surface on a property. Strategies to reduce impervious surface area or mitigate its impact include planting trees, using pervious paving materials, and creating natural stormwater treatment areas such as rain gardens and wetlands.

#### How are we doing?
According to a study by Kenyan Forests, Machakos County's impervious surface increased by 127% between 1984 and 2001. This trend later slowed, and the percentage of impervious surface has remained between 14% and 16% over the past five years. The percentage of impervious surface is showing a steady upward trend for the last ten years from 13.8% of total land area in 2011 to 15.9% of total land area in 2021.

#### Did you know?
Nearly 70% of all pollution found in our creeks and lakes - including oil from cars, fertilizers from lawns, dirt particles, and bacteria from pet waste - is carried there by storm water runoff.

The impervious surface in Machakos County increased by 7,116 acres between 2011 and 2021. For comparison, this increase is more than seven times the size of the UNC Machakos campus.

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm11'">Vacant Land</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm47'">Population Density</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm3'">Tree Canopy</a>  

### About the Data
The total number of acres classified as "impervious surface" by Machakos County for tax purposes, divided by total land area. These data do not include public streets or public sidewalks. To calculate impervious surface, Machakos County takes aerial photos of each land parcel and computer software is used to draw around the edges of the hard surfaces shown on the photo.

_**Source**: Machakos County Land Use & Environmental Services Agency_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[Machakos Explorer](https://explore.machakosnc.gov/| Learn about Machakos, its operations and its changing landscape.
|[GeoPortal](http://mcmap.org/geoportal/?q=impervious)| Look up the amount of impervious surface for any tax parcel.
|[Active projects](http://machakosnc.gov/StormWater/Projects/Pages/default.aspx) | See where improvements are being made to the stormwater system.
|[How fees are Calculated](http://machakosnc.gov/StormWater/Fees/Pages/CurrentFees.aspx)| All parcels with impervious surface must pay a stormwater fee. See how it is calculated.
|[Stormwater management](http://machakosnc.gov/StormWater/SurfaceWaterQuality/Pages/ResidentsTopTenTips.aspx) | Wise storm water management means the government, businesses and residents work together to reduce flood risks and improve water quality.